---
layout: post
title: 'Learn me a PHP for great good: Laravel 4'
tags: [code, learning, laravel4, php, framework]
---

About 8 months ago, I was put on a new project at work. It was a bit of a departure, as I was originally working on an an existing C++/Qt codebase, with other developers who knew the product and could help should I run into any road blocks. This new project, was essentially, to design and implement a brand new web application to store and view primary geo-technical data.

There were many obstacles from the very beginning, including architectural design decisions, unclear specifications and requirements, and limited developer resources and experience for the needed project. Those issues will be the subject of a later post. RIght now, I will just write about my experience with the framework and architecture decision we made.

###**[Laravel 4:](http://laravel.com/)**

Basically, it is a PHP framework that uses an [ORM](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-relational_mapping) implementation (referred to as [Eloquent ORM](http://laravel.com/docs/eloquent) in their documentation). It is somewhat reminiscent to Rails for Ruby. It works with various databases, including MySQL, Postgres, SQLite, and SQL Server. Dependencies and packages can be managed with [composer](http://getcomposer.org/).

###**The dizzying highs:**

Development speed: Once our database schema was established, creating models and defining their relations was exceptionally quick and straightforward. There were very limited resources on this project (mostly it was me doing about 75% of the coding), but was still able to get a fully functional system in a few months.

RESTful routing: One of the aims of the web application was to make it RESTful, and setting up the [routing with Laravel 4](http://laravel.com/docs/routing) was simple, and had enough features to handle more complex requests.

MVC: Through the [Jeffrey Way Laravel 4 Generators](https://github.com/JeffreyWay/Laravel-4-Generators), coding a model-view-controller web application became a lot quicker.

###**The terrifying lows:**

Magic unicorn sprinkles: With all the bells and whistles of Laravel 4, which speed up development time, there is a lot going on in the background, handling things for you, most of which you may not be aware of. This might be handy in a pinch, but this will eventually result in you hitting a wall when there is a bug, that you cannot immediately resolve because you do not fully understand what is going on under the hood.

One issue I encountered was naming of certain functions, classes, or tables, must follow a specific convention in order to work within the web application.

One example is camelCase must be used to define specific relational functions. I had made the mistake of using snake_case in the function definition of a many-to-many relationship (due to some older Laravel documantation where snake_case was the standard prior to Laravel 4), and the result was a rather bizarre and uninformative error. After much digging on StackOverflow, I found the resolution.

Another example of naming causing a problem, is that it is assumed that all 'Model' classes are named in the singular tense, and the table that stores those instantiations of the model, in the plural tense. Often, this may work fine, however, there were a few situation where this did not make sense for my web application. This caused an issue, as my table schema didn't follow this convention, and when trying to save a model instantiation, it would throw an error. The fix was simple (as you can specify a different table name in your model class), but again, something that may not be obvious to the new-comer.

###**The creamy middles:** 

All in all, I found this a pretty good framework to work with, and handles the ActiveRecord paradigm competently. I am sure I will be facing some magic unicorn dust in the near future, but the key will be understanding the underpinnings to handle any tailspins and [barrel rolls](http://tinyurl.com/lpfef3n). I am still discovering new features everyday, and some neat things to optimize my web application. And the adventure continues, as I step into the QA testing and subsequent maintenance phases of this development project. My hope is that, time permitting, I can start implementing unit tests and continuous integration in phase 2. Until then, keep looking to the stars!

