---
layout: post
title: 'Magento is as Magento does'
tags: [php-framework, e-commerce, magento]
---

I've been working as a [Magento](http://magento.com/) developer for a little over a year and a half, and I have come to one inescapable conclusion; I am not enjoying this.

Have you ever heard the expression:

> Stupid is as stupid does

Well, by that same token, I think that the following expression is an apt decription of Magento:

> Magento is as Magento does

For a more full explanation of the underlying expression, see [this](http://answers.google.com/answers/threadview?id=392986) (you can ignore all the preachy comments, and stick to the first answer given). But basically, this boils down to judging people or things by what they do, and not by how they appear.

###**The dizzying highs:**

Magento *appears* to be a very shiny e-commerce solution. And in some respects it is. It provides a great degree of flexibility for those that want an e-commerce store, and has proven itself in the marketplace as a vetted solution. 

It provides a clean approach to create custom modules for new functionality, allowing for compartmentalizing code, and also provides mechanisms for injecting code in the execution process through minimal intrusion using event observers. 

These are all great things, however...

###**The terrifying lows:**

To achieve this level of flexibility, it has made some design decisions (one being an [EAV](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entity%E2%80%93attribute%E2%80%93value_model) database schema design), which in turn sacrifices performance and scalability. To combat this issue, boosting performance is achieved through various caching techniques, but in my opinion is a hack at best, and a better solution should be sought out instead of applying a patching approach. Due to these performance issues, daily development can get slow and time consuming.

The monolithic codebase is often difficult to navigate, and coupled with many different developers who have worked on this over a decade, and many having different approaches/visions to solving the same problem, often has led me in circles when trying to determine the best solution to a problem I am facing.

A very picky naming convention for files/classes/modules/XML data can be frustrating at first, since often times, no errors are reported and fails silently, causing you to scratch your head wondering what went wrong.

###**The creamy middles:** 

Fortunately, a new hope has appeared in the form of Magento 2, and coupled with the release of PHP 7, should at the very least be intersting. Hopefully, this will help in resolving some of the annoyances in working with the platform on a daily basis (although XML files seem to have tripled... ugh). From my limited knowledge of the release, some database architecture changes have been made to improve on performance. Personally, I would have liked to see something like [PostgreSQL and the hstore](http://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/static/hstore.html) column applied. With that approach, you would get the relational database components where needed, and the hstore column (similar to a document store applied in NoSQL) used where the dynamic nature of EAV is needed.

Time will tell if this release will redeem Magento in my eyes.